:page_facing_up: add md auto-documentation for products (#184)
mindee/mindee-api-nodejs: docs/getting_started.md

---
title: Nodejs Getting Started
---

> This guide will help you get the most out of the Mindee Node.js  OCR SDK to easily extract data from your documents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide will help you get the most out of the Mindee Node.js client library to easily extract data from your documents.
```

> 📘 **Info**
> 

> > The library is written in TypeScript for your coding pleasure and is officially supported on all current LTS versions of node.js.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The library is written in TypeScript for your coding pleasure and is officially supported on all current LTS versions of Node.js.  
```

> > All examples shown in this guide should work in both TypeScript and Javascript.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> All examples shown in this guide should work in both TypeScript and JavaScript.
```

## Installation

### Prerequisites

You'll need [npm and Node.js](https://nodejs.dev/download/package-manager/).

**Note**: When installing a Node.js instance, [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) will also install a compatible npm version.

### Standard Installation

> The easiest way to install the Mindee OCR SDK for your project is by using npm:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The easiest way to install the Mindee client library for your project is by using npm:
```

```shell
npm install mindee
```

### Development Installation

If you'll be modifying the source code, you'll need to follow these steps to get started.

1. First clone the repo.

```shell
git clone git@github.com:mindee/mindee-api-nodejs.git
```

2. Navigate to the cloned directory and install all required libraries.

```shell
cd mindee-api-node.js
npm install 
```

## Updating the Library

> It is important to always check the version of the Mindee  OCR SDK you are using, as new and updated features won’t work on older versions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is important to always check the version of the Mindee client library you are using, as new and updated features won’t work on older versions.
```

> To get the latest version of your  OCR SDK:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get the latest version of the client library:
```

all supported types automatically.

Once a document is loaded, interacting with it is done in exactly the same way, regardless  
of how it was loaded.

There are a few different ways of loading a document file, depending on your use case:

- [Path](#path)
- [File Object](#stream-object)
- [Base64](#base64)
- [URL](#url)

### Path

Load from a file directly from disk. Requires an absolute path, as a string.

```ts
const inputSource = mindeeClient.docFromPath("/path/to/the/document.pdf");
```

### Stream Object

Load a standard readable stream object, for example as returned by the `fs.createReadStream()` function.

**Note**: The original filename is required when calling the method.

```ts
const stream = fs.createReadStream("/path/to/the/document.jpg");
const inputSource = mindeeClient.docFromStream(stream, "document.jpg");
```

### Base64

Load file contents from a base64-encoded string.

**Note**: The original filename is required when calling the method.

```ts
const b64String = "/9j/4AAQSkZJRgABAQAAAQABAAD/2wBDAAgGBgcGBQgHBwcJCQgKDBQNDAsLD...."
const inputSource = mindeeClient.docFromBase64(b64String, "document.jpg");
```

### URL

Specify a URL to send to the Mindee API.

> **Note**: The URL will not be downloaded locally, so checks (i.e. MIMEtype) and transformations (i.e. remove pages from a PDF) will not be possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: The URL will not be downloaded locally, so checks (i.e. MIME type) and transformations (i.e. remove pages from a PDF) will not be possible.
```

  const response = await mindeeClient.parse(mindee.InvoiceV4, inputSource);
}
```

## Processing the Response

The `Response` objects all have the following attributes:

- `document` — [Document level prediction](#document-level-prediction)
- `pages` — [Page level prediction](#page-level-prediction)

### Document Level Prediction

The `document` attribute is an object specific to the type of document being processed.  
It is an instance of the `Document` class, to which a generic type is given.

It contains the data extracted from the entire document, all pages combined.  
It's possible to have the same field in various pages, but at the document level only the highest confidence field data will be shown (this is all done automatically at the API level).

```ts
// print a summary of the document-level info
 console.log(resp.document.toString());
// or
console.log(`${resp.document}`);
```

A `document`'s fields (attributes) can be accessed through it's `prediction` attribute, which have types that can vary from one product to another. These attributes are detailed in each product's respective guide.

### Page Level Prediction

> The `pages` attribute is an array of `Page` objects. `Page` is a wrapper around elements that extend the [`Document` class](#Document-level-prediction). The `prediction` of a `Page` inherits from the product's own `Document`, and adds all page-specific fields to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `pages` attribute is an array of `Page` objects. `Page` is a wrapper around elements that extend the [`Document` class](#Document-level-prediction).
The `prediction` of a `Page` inherits from the product's own `Document`, and adds all page-specific fields to it.
```
